# Bike_Shop_Application_Frontend_Android
This is a front end application written in Kotlin that connects to a back end and retrieves data from there.


This is a simple Android application that consists of 2 fragments. These 2 fragments are brought together by a pager adapter named ViewPagerAdapter.
And this pager adapter is used in the main activity to put up the final application.

In the res folder there are the XML resources for this project. These are organised in folders like drawable, where all the icons that are to be drawn on the screen are located, along with tab selector XMLs. These latter ones combines 2 icons and having 2 different styles for the same icon, depending on the selected status of the element. The tab_icon_selector.xml brings the 4 aforementioned icons together (2 icons with 2 different styles each).

In the layout folder there are the main XML that are to be inflated for this application. There are the files for the 2 fragments of the application which contain cards with products and basic information about them. 
These card are similar when viewed from the 2 fragments, but have some differences, also when we open them into another fragment. The cards the are shown in the Supplier menu, once clicked there is information about how many of these products are in the supplier's stock, a field where we can select a number (lower or equal to the stock number) and a button which basically buys us the product with the specified quantity from the supplier. After that the stock is updated and the product will be added to My Shop section with the stock set to the number that we have selected we want to buy (above).
There in the My Shop menu each item can be clicked and modified, once the respective product has been sold or used in the bike shop. There will also be a number filed and a button labelled "-", which, once clicked, will subtract from the shop stock the value specified in the number field.
Apart from these elements each product has a photo taken from a real Romanian bike shop website, along with a name, brand, price and a brief description, the latter one also taken from the before mentioned website.

Then, in the same layout folder there is activity_main.xml which is the the view that is first inflated in our application. This has an AppBarLayout with a TabLayout, where a tab is selected and the corresponding fragment is showed, from the 2 one mentioned above. These are going to be shown in a ViewPager, which is situated right below the AppBarLayout.

The mipmap folder has the app icons that are going to be shown in the Android phone drawer or on the Play Store. The icons are of 2 kinds, one as a square and one as a circle, each one to be used in different scenarios, depending on the situation. Also, there is an instance of each icon at different sizes, again, to be used according to the situation. These were manually generated by me from Android Studio from the menu new->Image/Vector Asset. The same can be said about all the images from the drawable folder, apart from ic_launcher_background.xml, which was system generated.

The last folder that I modified is values, where all relevant values are stored. These values include hexa encoded colors, each one with a unique name (or id), strings like the application name and titles for different fragments. There is also styles.xml where I specified different custom styles that I can use throughout the other XML files. Lastly, there is a folder here called themes, which describes themes for the whole application. I have implemented 2 themes, one for light mode and another one for dark mode, which is very useful because nearly all Android phones nowadays have a setting for setting the overall phone theme and the apps are instructed to follow the system theme. So depending on the user preference my app is robust and the colors can be modified so it matches the overall theme.
